Dominant and persistent acoustic landscape features, such as rushing water, crashing surf anthropogenic noise (e.g., traffic noise), and chorusing animals can structure animal assemblages by providing fitness-enhancing habitat cues [1, 7]. Some soundscapes announce opportunities; for example, chorusing frogs serve as acoustic beacons guiding the dispersal of frogs and newts to breeding ponds, and female meadow katydids use mixed-species insect choruses to locate aggregations of males [8-11]. Alternatively, a soundscape may signal heightened predation risk [12], reduced foraging efficiency due to masked prey cues or distraction [12-14]. For example, pallid bats are slower to localize prey-generated sounds, regardless of whether environmental noise overlaps spectrally with prey cues [14]. Tropical irrigated rice paddies, as cultivated wet grasslands, are species-rich and often noisy habitats harboring vocalizing anurans birds and insects whose auditory presence can indicate various stages of the rice growth cycle. For example, anuran mating choruses mark the flooding of paddies and a crescendo of vocalizing insects signals rice maturation and canopy closure [15-21]. In addition to animal-generated sounds audible to humans, ultrasonic sounds are also an integral component of the rice acoustic environment (Fig. 1a). Sonar pulses emitted by insectivorous echolocating bats are a prominent feature of the soundscape, especially over newly planted rice paddies [22]. As the rice matures, aggregations of meadow katydid males (Conocephalini, Conocephalus spp.) broadcast an intense, broadband, ultrasonic call (> 90 dB at 1 m, SPL; 30-90 kHz to conspecific females [11,26]. Individual males produce a call sequence comprising several short-duration (< 20 ms) ticks similar to bat sonar pulses, followed by a rapid series of ticks or “buzzes”. An aggregation of calling males produces a chorus so ubiquitous and intense in late growth stages that it appears to deter foraging bats whose sonar overlaps with it in frequency [23]. However, despite this, and despite the fact that these ultrasonic choruses are a prominent and predictable acoustic feature of one of the oldest (9000 mya) and most extensive crops in tropical Asia (48 million hectares; https://www.irri.org/), it is unknown whether rice-associated arthropods attend to the chorus.The rice-associated arthropod assemblage represents a complex food web comprising detritivores, herbivores, predators, and parasitoids that accumulate in a predictable fashion over the growing season [20,27–29]; (Fig. 1b ,c). These include species with a known ability to detect and respond to sounds in their environment (e.g., eared moths, crickets, katydids [30, 31], and many more whose auditory capacity has yet to be tested. Arthropods indifferent to the chorus may be unable to detect the sound stimulus, either because they lack hearing organs, have a high auditory response threshold, or are insensitive to ultrasound. Others may be capable of detecting the chorus but may ignore it as irrelevant [32]. Alternatively, the ultrasonic chorus may attract arthropods that associate it with food (e.g., herbivores and predators of herbivores), host plants for egg-laying, or safety [23, 33]. Conversely, the ultrasonic chorus may provide a warning of suboptimal habitat, especially since meadow katydids not only produce a noisy backdrop that can mask important signals or cues (e.g., ultrasonic moth courtship calls [34]) but are also predators of insect eggs [35]. Moreover, it is possible that insects with sensitive anti-bat predator hearing (e.g., noctuid moths [36]) mistake the ultrasonic ticks of meadow katydids for bat sonar pulses and are repelled by the chorus. In addition to these potential direct effects, the ultrasonic katydid chorus may elicit indirect effects on dispersing rice-associated arthropods through their predators. For example, Sedlock et al. demonstrated that the chorus deterred aerial-hawking bats whose echolocation calls overlapped in spectral frequency with the katydids’ [23]. This enemy-reduced space may result in more dispersing arthropods irrespective of their hearing ability. Alternatively, the chorus may attract gleaning bats that eavesdrop on katydid calls but but are also capable of capturing aerial prey. We used an aggregation of 100 ultrasonic speakers to mimic a meadow katydid chorus in a newly planted tropical irrigated rice field that was free of naturally calling katydids. This “phantom chorus” modified soundscape primarily aimed to test whether aerial insectivorous bats were deterred by the ultrasonic chorus ([23]). However, systematic sampling of aerial arthropods documenting bat prey availability offered an opportunity to document the accumulation of dispersing arthropods over maturing rice—adding to the existing literature that reports primarily on canopy-sampled arthropods—and to test for responses of rice-associated arthropods to the ultrasonic insect chorus. Our study is primarily exploratory, given that documentation of hearing in arthropods is limited, and it is plausible that the chorus may influence even non-hearing taxa indirectly through bat (or other) predators. Therefore, we first pooled all arthropods within each rice stage-associated guild to test whether arthropod responses to the phantom chorus were guild-specific. Then, to better detect potential behavioral responses of taxa with members that have confirmed ultrasonic hearing, we reanalyzed the data by taxonomic family. We hypothesized that if the chorus serves as a habitat beacon, guilds that would normally arrive during later (noisier) growth stages, such as predators and herbivores, would be attracted to newly planted paddies, resulting in more captures during chorus-on versus chorus-off time blocks and in the playback paddy versus the two control paddies. Alternatively, if the chorus is associated with high predation risk or is simply distracting to a particular guild or taxonomic family, we predicted fewer captures during chorus-on versus chorus-off time blocks and in the playback paddy compared to the control paddies.